# Raku AI PlayGround

# Join our community!

Watch all the video clips about Raku and AI on [Yanzhan's Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDkz-__gl3frqLexukpG0DA) and chat with us on [Raku AI Official Slack Channel](https://join.slack.com/t/rakuai/shared_invite/zt-ky89h6jk-uFd4NXJzqq7vt53pp7~nWA)

# What is Raku AI PlayGround?

The aim of Raku AI PlayGround is two-folds:

1. Provide video game playgrounds to test AI algorithms written in Raku. During the video game, a raku script is used to control the player to win the game. Ultimately, we want to prove that Raku could be applied to implement complex AI algorithms and could win against top human players in a real time video game.

2. During the building of this project, we want to gradually expand the boundaries of the current Raku libraries to make the ecosystem of Raku libraries more "AI" friendly. That's why we put this repository under the Raku AI organization. It's not only a playground, but also a seed to inspire AI utility libraries.

It may seem daunting to completely achieve these 2 goals. However, we think we may already have a good start and we believe that gradual and consistent effort could change the big picture.

# Design Pricinples

There're 4 parts in a playground.

## Sensor

A sensor takes the snapshot of the game and turn this snapshot into a map of game entities so that the AI agent knows the state of both itself and its environment.

Technically, a sensor follows these steps:

1. take a snapshot of the game.

2. turn the snapshot into an OpenCV matrix.

3. turn the OpenCV matrix into a map of game entities by using rule based or deep learning based object detection.

## Motor

A motor executes the action sent by the AI agent.

Technically, a motor should have the following abilities.

1. send a keystroke.

2. click or drag a mouse.

## Game World or PlayGround

A runnable game.

## AI Agent

An AI agent is the brain of the AI player. It takes in the map generated by the sensor, thinks about the current situation and then makes a decision. Finally, the decision of the AI agent is executed by the motor.

For an AI agent, it should have the abilities to do path finding, state evaluation and state searching. Furthermore, we want to integrate reinforcement learning into the AI agent so that it could achieve the state of the art performance.

# Roadmap

- [] A quick sensor that could turn screenshot into OpenCV matrix (not including entity map generation since it's task-dependent) for at least 10 fps.
- [] A sensor that could work on MacOS, Linux and Windows.
- [] A motor that could send keystrokes and mouse events on MacOS, Linux and Windows.
- [] A pattern matching slide window algorithm that could turn an 8-bit like game into a map of entities.
- [] A generalized pattern matching slide window algorithm that could turn any game into a map of entities (with glitches).
- [] TensorFlow integration to have the ability of object detection. (The speed of object detection would be relatively slow, so maybe most of the time we have to turn to the slide window algorithm)
- [] A star Path Finding utility.
- [] Hierarchical Path Finding utility.
- [] Any-angle Path Finding utility.
- [] Alpha Beta Pruning for state searching.
- [] A framework of genetic algorithm for heuristic state searching.
- [] Memorization of strategies and states so that we can replay the game. (A loadable and replayable log system)

# Milestone

8-bit or tile-based games:

- [] An AI agent that could eliminate all the enemies and collect all the gold in the game of tiny platformer.

- [] An AI agent that could play super mario and pass all 8 stages.

- [] An AI agent that could play 8-bit tank game and could outplay the human player.

- [] An AI agent that could play music game breaking the record.

- [] An AI agent that could play Contra without losing a single life.

realtime strategy games:

- [] Make a realtime object detection system for a rts game.

or

- [] Just find a rts game with exposed API that could safe the effort of object detection (like in StarCraft II).

# Prerequisite:

You should install raku dependencies before running any playground.

```
zef install . --force-test
```

# PlayGround List:

[Tiny Platformer](https://github.com/Raku-AI/raku-ai-playground/tree/main/tiny-platformer)

# Video List:

[Tiny Platformer: a Random Walker](https://youtu.be/tAknJlrlV7k)

# How can you support this project?

1. You can directly contribute code to this project.

2. You can raise issues for this project.

3. You can join the [Raku AI slack channel](https://join.slack.com/t/rakuai/shared_invite/zt-ky89h6jk-uFd4NXJzqq7vt53pp7~nWA) to participate in this project and have a chat with the main developers.

4. You can follow [Yanzhan's Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDkz-__gl3frqLexukpG0DA) so that we can make more videos about the Raku AI project.

